From the New York Times, I'm Natalie
Kitroeff. This is The Daily.
Breaking news, The New York Times just
publishing shocking new allegations made
against late labor leader Cesar Chavez.
After a Times investigation revealed
allegations of sexual abuse against one
of America's most important civil rights
icons. This really is a reimagining of a
whole legacy and it's going to
>> The entire country has started to reckon
with a new reality. They covered up the
late civil rights leader's name with
cement. Removed the image of Cesar
Chavez from several commission pieces of
art.
>> A statue at Cesar Chavez Plaza is now
wrapped up in plastic you see here. And
a history that's now been rewritten.
California officially renaming the
holiday formerly known as Cesar Chavez
Day, March 31st, now to Farm Workers'
Day.
Today, on what would have been Cesar
Chavez Day in California, we talked to
the reporters who broke the story, Manny
Fernandez and Sarah Hertz, about the
women at the center of it and what it
took to uncover a secret that they'd
carried for more than 50 years.
It's Tuesday, March 31st.
Manny and Sarah, welcome to the show.
Thank you for having us. Hi. Thank you.
So,
you two just came out with this
bombshell that was years in the making.
This reporting showing that Cesar Chavez
sexually abused young girls and women in
his movement, and we wanted to talk to
you both about how this story came to be
and why it came about now.
And Sarah, you were integral to all of
this, but Manny, the reporting really
started with you. So, let's begin there.
How did this start?
It starts in 2021.
And I was sort of just getting settled
as the LA bureau chief when a biographer
of Cesar Chavez, named Matt Garcia,
wrote an email. And the email from Matt
Garcia was basically sort of saying,
"You know, hey guys, I didn't really
write this in my book, but there's some
things with Cesar Chavez and girls that
you guys should look into."
You know, he had touched on the fact
that Cesar Chavez had had some affairs
in his book, but he was hearing from
people saying
that there was more than that.
And
we get a lot of tips. Right. I chase a
lot of tips. And what did you think
about this one when you got it?
I wasn't sure what to make of it. I was
just sort of like, "Huh, maybe there's
something there, maybe not." But it was
certainly worth looking into. Worth
looking into, of course, because of who
Chavez is. This monumental civil rights
activist in the Latino community.
Manny, can you just tell me what did the
name Cesar Chavez mean to you at this
point? I mean, I am from Cesar Chavez
country.
I'm born and raised in Fresno,
California.
And you can't grow up in Fresno and be
from a Mexican-American family and not
have Cesar Chavez as just part of the
weather of your life.
Hmm.
Part of the weather. Yeah.
I mean, he's just like not It's not just
like streets, murals, and
and things like that. It's just that the
There's a
it runs a lot deeper than that.
For me personally, my grandparents on
both sides of my family
started out as farm workers.
On my
mom's side of the family,
my grandparents, they met on a garlic
patch outside of Fresno
in the 1940s
and they were both 16.
And my grandmother's line
that I have never stopped repeating
is she would always say, "It was love at
first smell."
Mhm.
And so like there's just that like
I mean that backstory like I mean that's
part of my DNA.
All my life
I have been driven by one dream, one
goal, one vision
to overthrow a farm labor system in this
nation that treats farm workers as they
were not important human beings. Cesar
Chavez is like as important to the
Southwest
as maybe MLK is to
the South.
>> Farm workers are not agricultural
implements. They are not beasts of
burden
to be used and discarded. He drew public
attention to the conditions that farm
workers were working in. Thousands of
farm workers live under savage
conditions.
>> Some of them were living in
basically sheds. And amid garbage and
human excrement pouring Some of them
were being mistreated. Our underage
children.
>> Some of them were not being paid for the
work they were doing.
>> No one even knew their names.
We had all lived through the fields or
our parents had. We shared that common
humiliation.
The only answer, the only hope was in
organizing.
So, he is on the front lines bringing
the
world's attention to how much farm
workers are being paid, how they're
being treated.
>> We have looked into the future and the
future is ours. He helped create
America's first successful union for
farm workers.
He
led pickets and great boycotts.
>> Boycott against the wine, the yellow
wine, the grapes, and the lettuce is
very effective.
>> And marches. Chavez and friends began
their walk from the sunny cedar edge
border checkpoint. But in a larger
sense,
he was this symbol, this like
spokesperson
to tell literally the world and
especially America
the work of these farm workers,
there's a nobility and a dignity to it.
Their lives matter and these dreams of
these people matter.
So, all of that to say, this tip that
you get, this story you're looking into
is not just another run-of-the-mill
story for you. Yeah, I mean, this is
important to me. Like, the stakes are
high, but
again, I am
chasing down a tip at this point.
>> Right. There may be a story here
and there may not.
But I wanted to talk to the women who
were rumored
that Cesar Chavez did something to them.
And hear from them
what is the deal? What happened?
You know, nobody wants to take down a
hero,
but I think we need to know who our
heroes are. Mhm.
So,
in this
tip from Matt Garcia
and in a conversation we have later
he's talking to me about a private
Facebook group for people who used to
march with Cesar Chavez, people who were
former union activists
and they're exchanging memories and
they're saying, "Hey, who remembers the
lyrics to that one song we used to
sing?" and things like that.
And shortly before Cesar Chavez's
birthday
which is March 31st
and it's a state holiday in California
there's this post.
And the post is from a woman named
Deborah Rojas and she writes a message.
And
as part of that message she basically
says, "Wake up people, this man you
march for every year molested me."
Mhm. And that post stays up
for a few days and then she takes it
down.
And so I called Deborah Rojas on the
phone but she made it clear that she was
not ready to talk.
And then one night sort of late
I get a call
and it's Deb.
And what does she say?
I can tell that she's been drinking.
And she's sort of calling me to say
"You know, do you really want to tell my
story? You don't want to tell my story.
They're going to come after you. They're
going to come after me."
She believed that the idea of taking
down Cesar Chavez would ignite so much
anger that people would come after her
and her family. Mhm.
The anger would be so high. From Chavez
supporters. The they is Chavez
supporters.
Yes, and it's actually even she believed
that people close to Chavez did not want
this story to come out.
It sounds to me like what Deb is doing
here is stress testing you in a way.
Like she's sussing you out. She's
asking,
"Do you have the stomach for what it
would mean to tell my story?"
Yes, that's exactly what she's doing.
And what she's doing
is she is struggling
with, "Do I come forward or do I not?"
And that struggle
I could hear it. I could see it. Do I Do
I hold this in
or do I
speak it? And she was struggling with
that in that moment. And
a short time later, she blocks me on her
phone.
That sounds like a dead end. How do you
proceed?
One of the things that happens is
eventually Sara gets involved.
I get a call from my editor
who tells me that they want to send me
to LA
to help out on this investigation.
So, I work in the international
investigations team. I'm based in
Brussels, and I have a background in
working in complex investigations, and I
also have a background in sexual
violence in conflicts, and so I fly to
LA.
So,
we were a team, and I shared my notes
with Sara, and we started reaching out
to a number of women. We decided that
we're going to broaden the search, just
interview
as many members of Cesar Chavez movement
as possible.
And there was another woman whose name I
had.
And that other woman is Anna Murgia.
And um
over time,
we went to go see Deb.
And then we went to go see Anna.
And
over the course of the reporting, I
start developing that journalistic
relationship with Deb, and Sarah starts
developing a closer relationship with
Anna.
And these two women,
Anna and Deb,
they know each other. They're friends.
They grew up together.
They talked to each other when they were
teenagers.
They know each other quite well.
And so
after months and months,
I I'm sitting down with Deb and I say,
"Do you think Would you go on the record
if Anna would?" And Deb's like, "Yeah, I
think I would." And that's eventually
what happens. Both individually decided
to go on the record with their names.
So, there's no way All right. So, I
guess we're going to do it like from
the beginning. And Anna agreed to have
her voice recorded.
Mhm.
How you feeling?
Yeah, today I woke up achy today.
>> Mhm.
Yeah.
So, Anna is 66 years old. She currently
lives in Bakersfield
in a house with her husband, and she has
three children. And in many ways, her
story is tied to a place Chavez
established for his movement in the
mountains outside LA, a place called La
Paz. Um you moved to this community
called La Paz. Yes, I was 10.
Uh we were My dad was in charge of, you
know, like just basically getting the
property ready. La Paz was his
movement's headquarters and Anna's
family, they were the first to move
there and to set up the place for
Chavez. So, when we moved up there,
uh
my family for a while was the only
family there.
You know, they had the old hospital and
the houses and
um it it
>> It was just this very eerie, isolated
place. It was formerly a hospital for
tuberculosis patients. tuberculosis
hospital. So, when we moved
>> where there was lots to explore and she
loved it initially.
You know, I was a tomboy, so
I liked doing, you know,
all that stuff, going out and playing in
the creek and
taking hikes on the mountainside and
you know,
>> She loved the
mountain caves where she could go by
ponds or creeks and and play in the
water. She also liked how spooky and
weird her new environment was. This old,
desolate hospital was a former
wheelchair that she could spin on.
It was kind of a wonderland for her, it
sounds like. It was. It was kind of a
wonderland. I think she just enjoyed
being carefree.
She just enjoyed being a child.
It was a very good place for me.
Were you Were you proud to be part of
this union?
Yes. Yes, I you know, I enjoyed it. I
it was something, I guess it was
instilled in me
from my dad, you know, going out and
helping other people and
doing good for people.
Her father, he was very invested in
Cesar Chavez's movement. In fact,
she basically met
Cesar Chavez through her dad when her
dad married a volunteer in that
movement. And so, Cesar Chavez attended
the wedding as her dad's best man. Wow.
And she remembers attending that
wedding.
I didn't know who it at the time who he
was, but that was the first time. And I
just knew that from pictures I had seen.
So, Anna was very much a child of this
labor movement.
She understood its significance from a
very early age. And she picked up on how
important her family's role was in
building this community in La Paz.
As soon as they moved in, really. I
thought it was a good thing, but through
the years as I got older in my younger
teen years, it would it got difficult.
Um we felt stuck
because there was really nobody
there
for me.
>> Now, the only thing is that this
environment was very isolated. There
wasn't much going on outside, and also
not many people living with her. My dad,
because my father was always gone. Yeah.
He was an organizer, so he was always
gone. Her father, he was never around
because Cesar asked him to go on tour
with him. He was always on picket lines.
He was always helping Cesar getting
contracts unionized for the farm
workers. So, her dad was always on the
move. Her stepmom was sometimes there,
but also gone at times.
And she just felt that it became
increasingly lonely. Right. It sounds
like she's surrounded by all of these
people, including her father, who are
dedicating themselves to this higher
calling, to this movement that they
truly believe in, but what that does is
kind of make the child, make Anna a
second-order priority.
Absolutely. And
she tried to fill that loneliness by
working herself as part of this union.
So I would go to school and come home
and go work.
For a time I worked, you know, in the
purchasing
um making sure that all we had enough
office supplies, ordering office
supplies.
I worked in accounting for a while.
Um
then I started working in Cesar's
office.
Cesar moved in
about a year and a half after Anna's
family had moved into this community.
And she had seen him by then and knew
how important he was.
He was often surrounded by his
bodyguards whom he employed,
you know, after he started receiving
quite a lot of death threats.
So she could sense a the presence of an
important man.
So um
when Cesar started asking her to work in
his office, that felt very special. Mhm.
When did that start?
I think I was like about 13, 12 and a
half, 13 years old.
So I would do like basically filing,
typing letters, just you know, simple
stuff like that that I could do, you
know.
>> She was very proud to say that she could
mimic his signature to help answer fan
mail. Because I would send his pictures,
so I would practice writing. And so then
I would sign because at one point it got
like too much.
So I would sign. Or work on the
switchboard. I enjoyed it. It was
uh board with a bunch of cables and it
reminded me of
character that Lily Tomlin played as a
switchboard off operator.
You know, I Gradually, he starts
inviting her in his office to just have
these one-on-one talks.
And Anna says that they talk a lot.
I had a really hard time talking to
people. I had a hard time talking to my
dad.
I had a hard time talking to my
stepmother. I didn't have a good
relationship with either of them at the
time.
And he was one adult that I could
confide in, that I knew he wouldn't tell
my father,
you know, what I was feeling or, you
know,
somebody that I learned to trust, that I
could talk to.
>> And so Anna tells him how
lonely she feels in this community.
school How lonely she feels at school. I
mean, like if something happened at my
house, you know, with my dad.
>> How lonely she feels in her home. And
how would he respond to those things?
He would just listen and try and be
understanding and And Caesar, in
exchange, tells her that he too feels
lonely. And he would say how lonely he
was and how hard it was that
he always had to have people with him
and
so it was so bad that, you know,
sometimes he couldn't even go to the
bathroom by himself. There would have to
be security
outside
uh right outside the bathroom with him.
Anna feels very sorry for him. You know,
that that sucks. She also feels
connected to him.
What was it like, um for you, you know,
to have this man share so much with you?
I felt very special.
That
he made me feel like I was somebody.
Wow. Um
and that's something I dealt with, you
know, um
I've dealt with a lot in my life.
But yeah, we used to talk. Just talk.
And at the time, Caesar
is already starting to be known in the
movement as someone who does yoga, who
enjoys meditation, but also as someone
who
sees himself as a bit of a healer. He by
then
starts going around his community and
saying that he can heal people with
migraines by putting his hands on them.
And so he starts doing that with Anna.
He places her on the yoga mat in his
office.
He tells her that this is a way to
relax.
>> Mhm. The first time it was like
we were talking and he told me to close
my eyes and he was trying to show me
pressure points and to show me how to
meditate and relax. But it starts like
that.
And then he would start kissing on me
and I was very surprised
when that happened. I
I didn't um
understand.
It is on the yoga mat.
While showing her these
>> and say like talk to me and say pressure
points on her hands, on her body that he
starts kissing her. How old is he at
this point? Caesar is about 44.
And Anna is 13.
Did you understand what kisses were or
what like how Not at that time. It was
just you know,
not anything intense at the beginning.
Um eventually it got more
um
more kissing and pretty soon it moved on
to other other things.
And it transforms into something where
he regularly calls her to his office
to be physical with her.
I felt
I felt I had
Who was I going to turn to once it got
past that? Mhm.
Um
When it got past the point when he took
me to that mat
to have intercourse.
I mean
I didn't have I don't know who I would
talk to. Yeah.
I had no one to turn to. Mhm.
>> Um
And it kept on and he would tell me not
to tell anybody to keep it a secret.
You know, my friends would be jealous.
So, I kept it to myself.
It was really hard because
>> And where were her parents in all of
this? Did they know what was going on?
I mean, my dad was gone. Yeah.
He gave everything to the movement. She
says that she didn't feel like she had
the space to tell them. You know.
I didn't know how he would react because
he was Cesar's compadre. Mhm. I didn't
know if he would be mad at me.
I didn't even know if he would believe
me.
And I didn't want to find out.
What about the others that were in this
community in La Paz? Did they get
suspicious about this? Did it raise any
red flags for anyone else?
No. Even though she had to pass by
several people to enter his office where
he would then lock the door. I mean
Come on, I'm a 13-year-old girl going
into his office and spending half hour
or 45 minutes an hour there just
when he's supposed to be so busy.
How could they not know?
But then one day
I was on my way to Cesar's office and I
ran into Debbie because Debbie's On the
path to Cesar's office, she runs into
Debbie, who's 12 at the time when Anna
is 13.
And I ran into her, "What were you
going?" And
I told her where I was going and she
looked at me like
like what? I'm like
"Yeah." And so we started talking. They
quickly realize that they're both going
to his office and doing the same things.
Oh, wow.
We looked at each other and we said
"Wait." You know, we both said the same
thing. Oh, he told me not to tell
anybody because they would get jealous
and she would And so it felt really like
a sort of relief to have someone to
finally be able to share her secret
with.
You know, it her and I would talk to
each other
because we were the only ones we could
talk to.
You know, we felt safe with each other.
But, it doesn't change Anna's dynamic
with Chavez. He continued to keep her
close.
And over the next few years, he would
bring her with him often on tour.
And I thought that was the coolest
thing, you know, because I got to meet
Joan Baez.
She is also accompanying him in the
summer of 1975 where Chavez and his
organizers are preparing this long march
broken up over multiple days through
California. For almost 20 years of union
organizing in California, Cesar Chavez
has won his biggest victory, legislation
>> And they call it the thousand miles
march. It's a very long march and
it's going to be difficult but we're
determined that that if we're going to
get the message to every single worker.
And the goal is to draw public attention
to their recent victory
that gave farm workers the legal right
to unionize in the state of California.
But we have to walk, we can't fly and we
can't drive because uh
driving and flying is just uh too rapid.
And so Anna is joining him in the middle
in Fresno with Debbie, her friend.
It was exciting because you know, we
were participating to me we're
participating in something really good.
Yeah. So Debbie and I, you know, we
traveled with Caesar and his guards, we
stayed in the same houses.
It was fun. I mean, it was
we were always in that circle with
Caesar. Made us feel very special.
It sounds like he's really at the peak
of his influence, Chavez, and of his
movement's success. Like I assume the
girls can feel that as they're with him,
that adoration he's being showered with.
Absolutely.
It's definitely has an impact on them in
the way that their secret is even more
tightly held because here they are,
these two girls from farm workers family
who seem to think that they're nobodies
in contrast to this great hero of the
people.
Why would I want to
destroy
the cause?
For me.
For my life.
How it affected my life.
I was nobody.
I was just a kid.
We'll be right back.
So, when does Anna start to break free
of Chavez?
It was a long process. It took several
years.
But, it begins the same year as the
March.
No, it was my 15th birthday.
He asked my parents if I can go with
them to a fundraiser in Bel Air. And
it's when she traveled to Bel Air at a
fundraiser's house.
I think I was looking for him and I
walked into
the kitchen.
She stepped in on him kissing another
woman.
And she tells me that she felt disgusted
by that.
And had the sense of
feeling betrayed.
>> Because he always made it seem like I
was the only special one in his life. I
finally had somebody there that
wanted just me.
And
>> But, why do you think it was this moment
that hit her so hard? Like, what about
it do you think
really shook her in this way?
I think that she
realized something that she probably
knew, but hadn't quite
come to grasp is that she wasn't someone
whom he loved or whom he saw himself
being with. She was just someone who he
was using.
And she starts pulling away. Our
relationship eventually started to
break down some.
You know, because
he I guess he started seeing he couldn't
control me as much as I got older. You
know, I would speak out more.
She spends less and less time with him.
She eventually decides she wants to
leave the community for good.
I needed to get away.
I I needed to get away, so I left.
That's got to be a freeing moment for
her.
But it's not.
She ends up becoming rapidly hooked to
heroin. So while it's supposed to be a
moment of freedom, it's supposed to be a
moment where she's finally not under the
grip of this one man,
she is starting to use.
Tried a couple of times even to OD
intentionally. Then I went to La Paz
because my family was there so that I
could try and get away, get clean from
my heroin use. She decides that the only
safe place to go is to the only family
that she knows, which is
you know, the family living in La Paz,
but
also the man whom
she had trusted. So she goes back.
And once she arrives, Cesar Chavez
summons her to his office. He summons
her the way he did it when she was a
child. He called her house
and he says, "You need to come to my
office."
And so I went. You know, I didn't think
anything of it. I went. But unlike all
the other times, he's not alone.
He's with a bunch of board members
who are
around Cesar and who all surround her
and who start verbally attacking her.
Saying what?
Saying that They didn't want me there.
She's a danger to the community. Um they
didn't want me bringing in drugs there.
That she's bringing in drugs. Told me to
get out.
>> That she is no longer welcomed.
I was devastated.
You know, to me, you know, I gave my
life for this cause. Mhm.
And
I never asked for anything back.
And the one time I went to ask for help,
I was treated I was being thrown out
like trash.
And she never talked to him again.
So,
that is obviously a very devastating
story, incredibly difficult to hear and
to think about.
I want to just pull back and ask to what
extent is Anna's experience reflective
of broader patterns that you all
uncovered in this reporting?
Anna's story
matched
the other stories we were hearing from
other women.
The way that
Cesar Chavez sort of
created that special bubble for Anna to
make her feel special, to have her work
for him and do different tasks, and to
spend time together alone in the office.
That matched up with the how he treated
Deb.
The same sorts of things that he was
doing with Anna,
he was doing with Deb.
So, we've now talked to seven women
with a range of allegations against him
of sexual abuse, sexual assault, and
sexual harassment.
And what we've heard from talking to
those women, as well as others,
is that he would sometimes have
consensual affairs with adult women,
and he would have also non-consensual
sexual encounters with adult women as
well.
And one of the most prominent examples
of that is Dolores Huerta, right? A
civil rights icon in her own right, who
also came out to say that she, too, was
a victim of sexual abuse at the hands of
Chavez.
This is a 95-year-old woman.
This is Dolores Huerta. This is
Cesar Chavez's top female partner in the
entire movement that he created. This is
the woman who coined "Sí, se puede."
This is
perhaps
the most famous Latina activist in
America.
We sat down with her for 2 hours and she
told us Cesar Chavez
sexually assaulted me.
And he also manipulated me into sex in a
hotel room.
And she told us
both of those sexual encounters led to
pregnancies.
And she had those babies in secret.
And she has held on to this secret for
60 years.
We have not independently verified what
Dolores told us.
However,
it does match the pattern that we've
heard
from several women
about how Cesar Chavez
operated. And what about that concern
that Deborah shared with you early on,
that our story might prompt this wave of
anger towards her from people close to
the movement? Has that materialized?
No, it hasn't really.
They've been flooded with support.
I think in many ways, like some of the
backlash that they feared in coming
forward
has actually been directed more towards
Cesar Chavez and any sort of
public displays of his name and his
face.
I graduated from Fresno State
University.
There was a statue of Cesar Chavez on
campus.
After our story published,
people at first put a black cloth over
it, and then they put a plywood box over
it to cover the statue.
Uh and now that statue has been removed.
Similar things have happened in other
cities across California, across the
country.
His name has been removed from
buildings,
street signs.
I have received emails and texts
and phone calls
from people who are
Mexican-American who tell me that they
were just devastated.
That it was it was a painful for them to
read this.
It was painful for them
to lose a hero.
I think the country is in the middle of
reckoning
with his legacy.
Manny,
I want to ask,
these women had kept this secret for
decades and decades, 60 years in one
case. And Cesar Chavez died in the '90s.
So, why did they decide to come forward
now after all these years?
You know, I was talking to
Deborah the other day after the story
published,
cuz she was hearing or seeing in the
media this sort of question of why now.
And Deborah said,
"Why not now?"
And I think her point was sort of like,
there was never a perfect moment for
Deborah to do this.
And Deb said, he has been a shadow over
my life
and I want it to end. It's time.
Sarah, what do you think about that
question? About why now for Anna?
I think
for Anna
there are several factors that come into
play. It's not just one big reason.
The first one is her dad.
I didn't want my dad to be so
disillusioned by this movement, by this
man
that he worked so hard with to help
bring about change for the farm workers.
About a year and a half ago, her father
passed away. You know, he died thinking
this man did a good thing.
And so that was one of the reasons why
she thought it was okay to tell her
story. It made it easier. Oh wow.
And so there's that and then there's
also this one moment that she describes
where she went back to La Paz when it
had opened as a public monument, as a
place where people could visit, learn
about Cesar Chavez's life, about the
movement's history.
And she had decided to go back and there
she saw pictures of Cesar, pictures of
the people in his movement
until she came upon his office. And his
office, they have it now behind a glass
wall.
And it was set up how he had it and And
as she looked at the office right in the
corner was the mat.
The yoga mat.
She saw the yoga mat. Oh god.
I was like, I can't believe they put
that there. It's
brought back so many memories. I was
like, I didn't go back anymore.
It is just so unique, so rare to have a
place where someone was abused to be on
display to the wider public.
At the same time, she also has come to
realize that
her life didn't necessarily have less
value than than the leader, than his,
than Cesar Chavez.
You know, I'm sorry to his family,
the Chavez family,
for doing this to their dad.
And I just want them to know that I'm
sorry.
But I couldn't hold it anymore.
It's time.
People need to know. They need to quit
worshipping
this person.
He's just a man.
He's not the gousa.
There were many men,
women, and children that sacrificed for
this cause. Yeah.
And many lives,
many lives were changed because of the
cause, not because of the man.
It's time
for the people that he hurt to speak
out.
Now I don't have to look at his name on
a street every time I drive by.
Now
I can breathe easy. I don't have to
carry this secret anymore.
That's all.
Well, Manny,
Sarah,
thank you both so much. Thank you. Thank
you for for having us.
Thank you.
We'll be right back.
Here's what else you need to know today.
If a country wants to send some oil into
Cuba right now, I have no problem with
it.
>> Do you worry that that helps The White
House signaled it was softening its
effective oil blockade on Cuba, allowing
a Russian tanker full of oil to reach
the island. We allowed this ship to
reach Cuba in order to provide
humanitarian needs to the Cuban people.
And these decisions are being made on a
case-by-case basis. The move comes after
the administration has been blocking
energy shipments to Cuba since January
and threatening to punish any nation
that sent fuel there.
Russia said it had discussed the
shipment in advance with the US and that
it had a duty to support Cuba.
Today's episode was produced by Olivia
Nat, Lindsey Garrison, and Rob Zipko. It
was edited by Michael Benoist and Liz
O'Baylen.
Original music by Dan Powell and
contains music by Marion Lozano, Pat
McCusker, and Alicia B. Etoop. Our theme
music is by Wonderly. This episode was
engineered by Alyssa Moxley.
That's it for The Daily. I'm Natalie
Kitroeff.
See you tomorrow.